Track 1, Winford Vaughan Thomas Memorial, The Best View in Wales
If you are lucky enough to have good weather, and you agree that this is a pretty fantastic
view then you are in good company, as the man who is depicted on the engraved slate
panel in front of you described it as the best view in Wales.
So who was he?
During his life Winford Vaughan Thomas brought pleasure to millions of people.
He will be most fondly remembered for his work at the BBC.
As a war correspondent between 1942 and 1945 he dealt with some of the most frightening
and thrilling events of the Second World War, including a report from a Lancaster bomber
over Berlin and another from the Belsen concentration camp.
In 1953 he was also part of a team to commentate on the coronation of the Queen.
Later in his life he not only co-founded Harlech TV, now ITV Wales, but he also travelled the
length and breadth of Wales to fulfil his love of the Welsh countryside.
So this man knows a good view when he sees one.
13 peaks are shown on the slate panel and on a good day you may even be able to make
out Snowdon.
Winford Vaughan Thomas would have enjoyed the 9km walk we are about to embark on, but
would have been only too aware of the need to take care when walking in the uplands.
Whilst much of the route is along well defined tracks, some of your journey will take you
over rough and sometimes steep moorland.
If you are at all concerned that visibility will be reduced due to low cloud or mist,
then please consider delaying your trip.
Also ensure that you are wearing sturdy walking boots and carry suitable weather protection
for all conditions.
The weather can quickly change in the Welsh hills.
Navigation aids in the form of a route finding map and compass, plus the ability to use them,
will also be wise additions to the packed lunch and a drink as the audio trail will
take at least three hours to complete.
So if you have decided to follow our audio trail, you will hear how life has changed
on these moors over the millennia, and what exciting yet subtle plans the Montgomeryshire
Wildlife Trust have for their future.
If you would like to discover more about Winford Vaughan Thomas, including some of his most
memorable recordings, you can download a podcast about his life from the Campaign for the Protection
of Rural Wales website www.cprw.org.uk.
Head down the track past the memorial and through two gates, keeping the conifer plantation
on your right.
Where the track crosses a little gully, on a right hand bend, head diagonally uphill
across the open moorland, keeping a fence line in view on your left.
On reaching the top of the ridge, bear right towards a new stile.
Climb this and follow the narrow path through the heather and bilberry to the top of the
ridge where there is a concrete trig point.
Listen to track two at the concrete trig point that offers extensive views.